## Architectural Decisions

### **A. Scaling Infrastructure (Based on 100 Users)**

* We do **not** need multiple servers.
* We do **not** need a load balancer.
* **Why:** A single, standard server can easily handle the tiny amount of traffic generated by 100 users.

### **B. Database Architecture (Based on 1,000 URLs)**

* We do **not** need separate databases for Read & Write operations.
* We do **not** need Database Sharding.
* **Why:** Storing 1,000 links takes up almost zero storage space. A single database instance can handle this workload.

---

## API Design

### 1. Create Short URL

* **Endpoint:** `POST /create`
* **Request Body:**
```json
{
  "url": "https://www.google.com/mansu-singh"
}

```


* **Response Body:**
```json
{
  "shortUrl": "https://myurl.com/abc123"
}

```



### 2. Redirect URL

* **Endpoint:** `GET /abc123`
* **Response Status:** `302 Redirect`
* **Response Header:** `Location: https://www.google.com/mansu-singh`

---

## Database Design

### **Table Structure**

| Column | Type | Description |
| --- | --- | --- |
| `id` | `BIGINT` | Unique primary key |
| `main_url` | `TEXT` | The original long URL |
| `short_code` | `VARCHAR(10)` | The unique short token (e.g., `abc123`) |
| `created_at` | `TIMESTAMP` | Record creation date and time |

---

## Core Components

1. **User:** Generates new short links and clicks them to visit destination sites.
2. **API Server:** Processes requests,shortening logic, and handles redirects.
3. **Database:** store the link safely in a single table.

---

## System Workflows

### **1. Creation Flow**

* The **User** sends a long URL via the creation API (`POST /create`).
* The **API Server** generates a unique `short_code` and passes the data to the database.
* The **Database** saves the record and sends back a success confirmation.
* The **API Server** constructs the final short link and returns it to the user.

### **2. Redirection Flow**

* The **User** visits `tinyUrl.com/abc123`.
* The **API Server** extracts the `shortCode` token (`abc123`).
* The **API Server** looks up this specific `shortCode` inside the **Database**.
* The **Database** returns the matching original long URL.
* The **API Server** sends an HTTP `302 Redirect` response back to the client.
* The user's **Browser** reads the redirect response and automatically opens the long URL.